.TH MI5 1df "June 2017" "Manual page for mi5"
.SH NAME
.B mi5
\- m4 inverted preprocessor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mi5
FILE > out.m4
.br
.B mi5
open='{{{' shut='}}}' FILE > out.m4
.br
.B mi5
FILE1 FILE2 > out.m4
.br
prog |
.B mi5
> out.m4
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mi5
is a simple and crude m4 preprocessor to make using m4 slightly more bearable
and predictable for its author, who wants badly to like m4 but doesn't. It's
primarily intended for situations where the majority of a file is simple static
text, and only a few simple macros need to be defined and expanded, which
covers almost every usage case for the author. It's written to work with any
POSIX awk and to generate output for any POSIX m4.
.P
mi5 inverts m4's usual approach by approaching most of the file as if it were
part of an m4 quote, with <% and %> as the (default) delimiters to specify
markers in which macro expansion should occur. This is therefore a way to
shoehorn m4 into working in a way reminiscent of templating libraries or
languages like PHP.
.P
Macros can be expanded as blocks:
.P
    <%

        define(`FOO', `bar')
        define(`BAZ', include(`include/quux.inc'))

    %>
.P
For this format, `dnl' macros to delete newlines for each declaration are
inserted for you. Blank lines are skipped, and leading and trailing spaces are
ignored. The above code therefore produces no actual output, as it only has two
define calls.
.P
For inline expansion, the syntax is similar, but the behaviour slightly different:
.P
    The value of the FOO macro is <% FOO %>.
.P
Spaces immediately after the opening delimiter and before the closing delimiter
are ignored, but spaces produced within the macro are preserved. `dnl` macros
are not inserted for inline blocks.
.P
Ideally, you do your complex macro definition in a block at the top of your
file, and your simple macro expansion of those results in an inline.
.SH CAVEATS
There's no way to escape the delimiters.
.P
Inline expansions cannot span multiple lines. Use blocks for that.
.P
Doesn't cope at all with `changequote'. If you need to specify different ones
from this tool's point of view, you can change the "quote" and "unquote" vars
in the same way as "open" and "shut", but if you're getting to that point then
you should probably write raw m4.
.SH SEE ALSO
m4(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Tom Ryder <tom@sanctum.geek.nz>
